>> Maximiliano Firtman: Our app.js is
ready for now, of course, nothing happens.
It's not working because
everything's empty.
I'm going to create a folder here.
I mean, I could call the folder scripts,
but I will use webapp just to show
you that we don't need to name the folders
as in the 90s, like scripts, style.
So we can name our modules,
we can name the folders
of our modules by topic,
not by just the type of
file that is inside.
Here, I'm going to start with a mixin,
I think that's one of the cool parts.
So I'm going to create a miixins,
file mixin or
mixins, doesn't matter,
where I can put here 1 mixin.
Of course, if you have a lot of mixins,
probably you wanna create a lot
of modules, one per mixing or things like
that, but in this case, we have only 1.
So we are going to apply two
design patterns at the same time.
We are going to create a mixin that will
implement the observer pattern, why?
Because we will have a list, okay?
So we have a list of to-dos.
That list will change, I can add elements,
I can remove elements, make sense?
So, maybe I wanna implement
the idea of observer.
I want observers to observe
changes on the list.
Makes sense?
So I can go and inject the observer
pattern directly into my list,
but I can create a mixin that I can
reuse later on other classes as well,
that's idea of a mixin.
I create behavior that then I can
inject in one or more classes, okay?
So in this case,
we're going to create an observer
mixin that is going to be an object,
a literal object,
that will have first a new collection.
I can use a set, I mean,
I can use an array if you want.
The difference with the set is
that there is no order, and
also it doesn't accept duplicates.
So I cannot add twice the same observer,
the same function,
the same callback, okay?
It's not going to accept the same
callback again, which is a little better.
So, and then we have the addObserver
method that will receive an observer and
we'll just, let's use method syntax.
I can use Harvard syntax as well,
but anyway.
Well, I will say these observers,
we'll add the observer that we
receive as an argument to our list.
Then we have the removeObserver
that receives an observer and
it's going to delete it from the list.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: By the way,
this is a simple implementation
of the observer pattern.
It can be more complex, for
example, when you subscribe,
when you add an observer, you can also
specify which event do you wanna observe.
In the case, the subject has different
events, like load, change, delete,
so you can can clone
the AddEventListener pattern, okay?
But in this case, we will create one
observer that will be applied for
just change, okay,
we are changing something.
And then, we notify, so there is a method
notify that will take
the list of observers.
It will iterate over each observer and
it will execute each observer.
If you don't understand yet
what's going on here, I'm missing a comma,
the whole idea here is that if I have
an object with the observer mixin,
I can add an observer,
and what's an observer?
Anything, but I will pass functions,
so I can create something like this.
And then, I can add another one and
another one, so
it's like an addEventListener.
And at some point,
I can call observer notify.
A notify will actually go through
the three observers and execute them.
Remember, this is a function.
So actually, the set observers
will be a set of functions.
So that's why I'm executing
the function here.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I mean for
code security point of view,
I should check later if it's a function or
not, so
I should do some stuff to
make sure that my code works.
But I wanna keep it simple so
we understand the design pattern here.
Do you have any questions?
Of course, this is just a sample,
I don't need that code.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: We
are not applying the mixin here.
Remember, the mixin is a way that we have
to add behavior to another object without
changing the nature of the object,
without changing the superclass.